IBX-6404: Added create bundle extension (#2214)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/administration/project_organization/bundle_extension/create_bundle.md

```
2\. Change to bundle generator directory.

```bash
cd bundle-generator
```

3\. Install dependencies:

```bash
composer install
```

4\. Run bundle generator:

```bash
php bin/ibexa-bundle-generator currency-exchange-rate --skeleton-name=extension
```

5\. Adjust the bundle to your needs providing the following parameters.
    The command runs with an interactive mode.

- Package vendor name - acme
- Bundle vendor namespace - Acme
- Bundle name - CurrencyExchangeRate
- Skeleton name - acme-ee

![Bundle generator](bundle_generator.png)

This creates a bundle files structure in the  `./target` directory.

You can rename the target directory according to your needs.

You can also use a command with all available options:

```bash
php bin/ibexa-bundle-generator currency-exchange-rate currency-exchange-rate-dir  --vendor-name=acme --vendor-namespace=ACME --bundle-name=CurrencyExchangeRate  --skeleton-name=extension
```

## Create bundle with GitHub template

1\. Go to the [[= product_name_base =]] [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ibexa/bundle-template).

2\. In the upper-right corner, click the **Use this template** button, and select **Create a new repository**.

> 3\. Provide repository name. Optionally, you can add description for the bundle.
> Next, click **Create repository**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3\. Provide repository name. Optionally, you can add description for the bundle.

Next, click **Create repository**.
```

> ![GitHub template](bundle_github_template.png)
> Once the repository is created, a workflow starts and generates the bundle structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![GitHub template](bundle_github_template.png)

Once the repository is created, a workflow starts and generates the bundle structure.
```

Vendor namespace is generated from the orgnization name.

> Package and bundle name inherits from repository name.
> ### Bundle directory structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Package and bundle name inherits from repository name.

### Bundle directory structure
```

          name: Base currency
          options:
            choices:
              'US Dollar': USD
              'EURO': EUR
              'Polish Zloty': PLN
```
This file contains all configuration provided for 3rd party extension packages.

### Implement view

Create a view template that you indicated in the configuration.
In the `src`, add the `default.html.twig` file with the script provided by [Currency rate](https://currencyrate.today/exchangerates-widget):

```html+twig
<script>var fm = "{{ base_currency }}";
var to = "BTC,AUD,GBP,EUR,CNY,JPY,RUB";
var tz = "timezone";
var sz = "1x349";
var lg = "en";var st = "primary";
var cd = 0;
var am = {{ amount }}</script><script src="//currencyrate.today/exchangerates"></script>
<div style="text-align:right"><a href="https://currencyrate.today">CurrencyRate</a></div>
```

Next, commit all changes to the GitHub.

### Continuous integration

To ensure quality requirements of your code in the newly created bundle, run:

- `composer php cs fixer`
- `composer tests`

Before releasing the newly created bundle, ensure your source meets quality requirements by running:
- run  composer php cs fixer
- run composer test unit tests

> [GitHub actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions)

Reviewer 2: Looks like parto of the sentence is missing?

To ensure delivery of working code, use CI/CD pipeline right from the GitHub repository.

> Best practices for testing your bundle encompas:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Best practices for bundle testing include:
```

It can work as a standalone application mode.
This section thoroughly explains how to create a bundle using generator as a stand-alone application.
You can use this skeleton as a basis for your extension project.
It's the easiest and recommended way.

1\. Go to [Ibexa bundle generator](https://github.com/ibexa/bundle-generator){:target="\_blank"} and clone the repository.

```bash
git clone git@github.com:ibexa/bundle-generator.git
```
2\. Change to bundle generator directory.

```bash
cd bundle-generator
```

3\. Install dependencies:

```bash
composer install
```

4\. Run bundle generator:

```bash
php bin/ibexa-bundle-generator currency-exchange-rate --skeleton-name=extension
```

5\. Adjust the bundle to your needs providing the following parameters.
    The command runs with an interactive mode.

- Package vendor name - acme
- Bundle vendor namespace - Acme
- Bundle name - CurrencyExchangeRate
- Skeleton name - acme-ee

![Bundle generator](bundle_generator.png)

This creates a bundle files structure in the  `./target` directory.

You can rename the target directory according to your needs.

> Or you can use a command with all available options:

Reviewer 3: It sounds better to me, but up to you, it's just a subjective opinion :)

```suggestion
You can also use a command with all available options:
```

```bash
php bin/ibexa-bundle-generator currency-exchange-rate currency-exchange-rate-dir  --vendor-name=acme --vendor-namespace=ACME --bundle-name=CurrencyExchangeRate  --skeleton-name=extension
```

## Create bundle with GitHub template

1\. Go to the [[= product_name_base =]] [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ibexa/bundle-template).

2\. In the upper-right corner, click the **Use this template** button, and select **Create a new repository**.

3\. Provide repository name. Optionally, you can add description for the bundle.
Next, click **Create repository**.

![GitHub template](bundle_github_template.png)

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Once the repository is created, a workflow starts which generates a bundle structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the repository is created, a workflow starts and generates the bundle structure.

Vendor namespace is generated from the orgnization name.
Package and bundle name inherits from repository name.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

    ├── integration
    └── lib
```
Where:

- `LICENSE` - a license file, GPL v2 by default.
- `README.md` - a readme file with bundle description, its version and install instructions.
- `composer.json` - a package definition.
- `deptrac.yaml` - a tool for static code analysis for PHP, checks the coherence of package architecture, for more information see [deptrac](https://qossmic.github.io/deptrac/) documentation.
- `package.json` - frontend dependencies, for more information, see [about packages and modules](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-packages-and-modules).
- `phpstan.neon` - phpstan configuration, a tool for static code analysis for PHP, scans, and evaluates codebase to find errors, and bugs, for more information, see the [documentation](https://phpstan.org/user-guide/getting-started).
- `phpunit.xml.dist` - config for phpunit, unit and integration tests - see [documentation](https://phpunit.de/getting-started/phpunit-10.html).
- `src` and `tests` follow the base catalog structure, according to [package structure](https://phpunit.de/getting-started/phpunit-10.html) docs.

To fully use the possibilities of the bundle, get familiar with the structure:

- `resources/`

>     - `config/` - contains configuration for the environment/ governs budle configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `config/` - contains configuration for the environment and governs budle configuration.
```

>         - `services/` - recommended place for services definition files
>         all services definitions must be split into separate files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - `services/` - recommended place for services definition files, all services definitions must be split into separate files.
```
With a line wrap, it looked weird in the preview
<img width="779" alt="Screenshot 2023-11-17 at 08 39 08" src="https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/assets/35031941/5483d13c-b184-4779-9390-e594958059a1">

>         - `prepend.yaml` - houses additional configuration for other extensions
>     - `views/` - handles the [design engine](../../../templating/design_engine/design_engine.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - `prepend.yaml` - houses additional configuration for other extensions.
    - `views/` - handles the [design engine](../../../templating/design_engine/design_engine.md).
```

- `tests` - contains all tests for the bundle. For more information, see [continuous integration](#continuous-integration).

## Build page block

> This section presents an example of how to create an extension that add a new page block in Page Builder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section presents an example of how to create an extension that adds a new page block to Page Builder.
```

1\. In `composer.json` add the Page Builder depency to be able to create a page block:

```json
 "require": {
    "php": "^7.4 || ^8.0",
    "ibexa/core": "^4.5",
    "ibexa/page-builder": "^4.5",
    "symfony/config": "^5.4",
    "symfony/dependency-injection": "^5.4",
    "symfony/event-dispatcher": "^5.4",
    "symfony/event-dispatcher-contracts": "^2.2",
    "symfony/http-foundation": "^5.4",
    "symfony/http-kernel": "^5.4",
    "symfony/yaml": "^5.4",
    "http-interop/http-factory-guzzle": "^1.2"
  },
```

2\. Page Builder isn't an open-source package, so to be able to use this dependency, add `repositories`:

```json
"repositories": {
    "ibexa": {
      "type": "composer",
      "url": "https://updates.ibexa.co"
    }
  }
```

3\. Next, run the following command to fetch the Page Builder dependency:

```bash
    composer update
```

> For more information, see [bundles](../../../administration/project_organization/bundles.md) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [bundles documentation](../../../administration/project_organization/bundles.md).
```

          name: Currency exchange block
      attributes:
        amount:
          type: integer
          name: Amount
        base_currency:
          type: select
          name: Base currency
          options:
            choices:
              'US Dollar': USD
              'EURO': EUR
              'Polish Zloty': PLN
```
This file contains all configuration provided for 3rd party extension packages.

### Implement view

Create a view template that you indicated in the configuration.
In the `src`, add the `default.html.twig` file with the script provided by [Currency rate](https://currencyrate.today/exchangerates-widget):

```html+twig
<script>var fm = "{{ base_currency }}";
var to = "BTC,AUD,GBP,EUR,CNY,JPY,RUB";
var tz = "timezone";
var sz = "1x349";
var lg = "en";var st = "primary";
var cd = 0;
var am = {{ amount }}</script><script src="//currencyrate.today/exchangerates"></script>
<div style="text-align:right"><a href="https://currencyrate.today">CurrencyRate</a></div>
```

Next, commit all changes to the GitHub.

### Continuous integration

To ensure quality requirements of your code in the newly created bundle, run:

- `composer php cs fixer`
- `composer tests`

> Before releasing the newly created bundle: to ensure your source follows quality reqwuiremet run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before releasing the newly created bundle, ensure your source meets quality requirements by running:
```

> run  composer php cs fixer
> run composer test unit tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- run  composer php cs fixer
- run composer test unit tests
```
or 
```suggestion
```bash
composer php cs fixer
composer test unit tests
```
```
